Understanding GitHub acions
Overview:
         GitHub actions is a continuous integration or delivery platform that allows you to automates your build,test and deployment pipline
         GitHub Actions goes beyond just DevOps and lets you run workflows when other events happen in your repository.

Components:
configuration of github action workflow is triggered when an event occurs in repository
 Each job will run inside its own virtual machine runner, or inside a container. run a script that you define or run an action, which is a reusable extension that can simplify your workflow.

Workflow:
   A workflow is a configurable automated process that will run one or more jobs.
Workflows are defined in the .github/workflows directory in a repository, and a repository can have multiple workflows, each of which can perform a different set of tasks.

Events:
      An event is a specific activity in a repository that triggers a workflow run.

Job: 
      A job is a set of steps in a workflow that is executed on the same runner. Each step is either a shell script that will be executed,
       or an action that will be run. Steps are executed in order and are dependent on each other. 

Actions: 
An action is a custom application for the GitHub Actions platform that performs a complex but frequently repeated tasks.It helps to reduce the amount of repitative code.

Runner:  
         runner is a server that runs your workflows when they're triggered. Runs single job at a time. 

Creating workflow:  GitHub Actions uses YAML syntax to define the workflow. Each workflow will be stored in separate YAML file. in a directory named .github/workflows.

Repository that automatically triggers a series of commands whenever code is pushed. GitHub Actions checks out the pushed code, installs the bats testing framework, and runs a basic command  to output the bats version: bats -v

In your repository, create the .github/workflows/ directory to store your workflow files.

In the .github/workflows/ directory, create a new file called learn-github-actions.yml

Commit the changes and push them to your GitHub repository.
GitHub Actions workflow file is now installed in your repository and will run automatically each time someone pushes a change to the repository.


Understanding workflow file:

name: learn-github-actions  --  The name of the workflow as it will appear in the "Actions" tab of the GitHub repository.
run-name: ${{ github.actor }} is learning GitHub Actions --  The name for workflow runs generated from the workflow, which will appear in 
                                                             the list of workflow runs on your repository's "Actions" tab.  

on: [push] --  specifies the trigger for the workflow.

jobs:
Groups together all the jobs that run in the learn-github-actions workflow.

check-bats-version:  Defines a job named check-bats-version. The child keys will define properties of the job.

runs-on: ubuntu-latest -- Configures the job to run on the latest version of an Ubuntu Linux runner. This means that the job
                           will execute on a fresh virtual machine hosted by GitHub.

steps: -- Groups together all the steps that run in the check-bats-version job. Each item nested under this section is a separate action or shell script.

   - uses: actions/checkout@v3 --  the uses keyword specifies that this step will run v3 of the actions/checkout action. This is an action that checks out your repositor on to the on to the runner


- uses: actions/setup-node@v3
      with:
        node-version: '14'--  this step uses the actions/setup-node@v3 action to install the specified version of the Node.j.


 - run: npm install -g bats -- The run keyword tells the job to execute a command on the runner. 

 - run: bats -v -- The run keyword tells the job to execute a command on the runner. In this case, you are using npm to install the 
                    bats 


   - run: bats -v -- Finally, you'll run the bats command with a parameter that outputs the software version.software testing package.


Viewing the activity for a workflow run:

On GitHub.com, navigate to the main page of the repository
Under your repository name, click  Actions.
In the left sidebar, click the workflow you want to see.
From the list of workflow runs, click the name of the run to see the workflow run summary
In the left sidebar or in the visualization graph, click the job you want to see.
To view the results of a step, click the step
























 